# Project Title: Sales Performance Analysis
### Project Overview
---
This project aims to generate  insights from the sales data from various regions, markets, and stores  over the past two years(2014 & 2015). By analysing the various parameters in the data recieved, the goal is to  gather sufficient insights to make reasonable decisions enabling to tell compelling stories around the data. This analysis is centered around discovering the revenue trends and sales performance across the various regions and also aids in identifying the key performance indicators from our data. 

### Data Sources 
---
The primary source of the Data used is a Sales Data .xlxs. made available by LITA DATA ANALYSIS BOOTCAMP, an online training class.

### Data Collected
---
The data collected contians the following key columns needed for the analysis:
1. Region: geaographical area contaianning markets and stores
2. Market: a particular section within the region
3. Store: an outlet within the market where the goods are sold
4. Trade date: Particular day when transaction was carried out
5. Line of business: Types of goods and services sold
6. Units sold: Total number of each goods and services sold
7. Revenue: Amount of money generated via goods sold
8. Transaction category: Goods and services categorized based on unit sold.
    
### Objectives
---
This project was structured to address the following analysis goals:
  1. Revenue by Region: Dertermine the  total amount of revenue generated by each region 
  2. Revenue by Line of business: Determine the total amount of revenue generated by each line of business
  3. Best top 10 Stores by Revenue
  4. Worst performing stores by unit sold: analyse the number of units sold by poor performing stores
  5. Region by unit sold: Analyse the unit sold by each region across the country in other to gauge their performance
     
### Key Performance Metrics
---
key metrics are quantifiable measurements relevant for tracking performance/progress and making informed decisions. The following metrics were used:
- Revenue: Sum of revenue column grouped by region and line of business.
- Unit Sold: Sum of unit sold grouped by revenue and line of business.
- Average Revenue: average revenue calculated by dividing total revenue by unit sold for each region.

### Tools Used
---
- Micosoft Excel [Download Here](https://www.microsoft.com)
    1. For Data cleaning
    2. Data Analysis: utilizing pivot table for summarising and organising data into tables for easy interpretation and visualization. 
    3. Data Visualizasion: utilizing pivot charts like bar charts, pie charts to give insight to data visually.

### Data Cleaning and Preparation
---
At the initial phase of the Data Cleaning and Preparations, the following actions were performed;
1. Data loading and Inspection
2. Handling missing variables
3. Data Extraction
4. Data cleaning and formatting

### Exploratory Data Analysis
---
This involed the exploration of the data to answer certain question about the data such as;
- What is the overall sales trend
- What is the revenue generated
- Which line of products are the top revenue generators
- Which region generate Revenue the most?

### Formular  Used
```Microsoft Excel
Average Revenue = Total Revenue/Unit Sold
```

### Data Ananlysis, Visualization, and Insights
---
1. Revenue by Region
---
Pivot Table







